This crime is the most fiendish, cold-blooded, inexcusable case the world has ever known.
That's what Mr. Horn has told this court. Your Honor, I've been practicing law a good deal
longer than I ought to have, defending now for 45, 46 years, during all that time, I've never
tried a case where the State's Attorney did not say that it was the most cold-blooded inexcusable case ever.
Certainly there was no excuse for the killing of little Pauly Kessler. There was also no reason for it.
It wasn't for spite, or hate, or for money. The great misfortune of this case is money. If your Honor
should doom these boys to die, it'll be because their parents are rich. I don't need to mention that
I'd fight as hard for the poor as for the rich.
If I'd come into this court alone, with two ordinary, obscure defendants who'd done what these boys have done,
there hadn't been all this weirdness and notoriety, this sensational publicity, and I said, "Your Honor
I want to gather a plea of guilty and let you sentence them to life imprisonment," do you suppose the
State's Attorneys would raise their voices in protest? There's never been a case in Chicago where on a
plea of guilty a boy under 21 has been sentenced to death - not one.
Yet for some reason, in the case of these immature boys of diseased minds, as plain as day, they say you
can only get justice by shedding their last drop of blood. Isn't a lifetime behind prison bars enough for
this mad act? And must this great public be regaled with a hanging? For the last three weeks, I've heard
nothing but the cry of blood in this room. Heard nothing from the offices of the State's
Attorneys but ugly hatred.
For God's sake, are we crazy!? If you hang these boys, it will mean that in this land of ours, a court
of law could not help but bow down to public opinion. In as cruel a speech as he knew how to make,
the State's Attorneys told this Court that we're pleading guilty because we're afraid to do anything else.
Your Honor, that's true. So of course, I'm afraid to submit this case to a jury, where the
responsibility must be divided by twelve. No, your Honor, if these boys must hang, you must do it.
It must be your own deliberate, cool, premeditated act.
The State's Attorneys laughed at me for talking about childrens' fantasies, but what does he know
about childhood? What do I know? Is there anyone of us who hasn't been guilty of some kind of delinquency
in his youth? How many men are there here today, lawyers and congressmen, judges, and even States' Attorneys,
who haven't been guilty of some kind of wild act in youth, and if the consequences didn't amount
to much, and we didn't get caught, that was our good luck.
But this was something different. This was the mad act of two sick children who belong in a
psychopathic hospital. Do I need to argue it? Is there any man with a decent regard for human life, and the
slightest bit of heart, that doesn't understand it? We're told it was a cold-blooded killing, because they
planned and schemed. Yes, but for months, to hear the officers of the State, who for months have planned
and schemed and contrived to take these boys' lives. Talk about scheming. Your Honor, I've become obsessed
with this deep feeling of hate and anger. I've been fighting it, battling with it until it has fairly driven
me mad.
What about this matter of crime and punishment, anyway? Through the centuries, our laws have been modified,
until now men look back with horror at the hangings and the killings of the past. It's been proven,
that if the penalties are less barbarous, the crimes are less frequent. Do I need to argue with your Honor
that cruelty only breeds cruelty? That every religious leader who's held up as an example has taught us that
if there's any way to kill evil, it's not by killing men, and if there's any way of destroying hatred, and
all that goes with it, it's not through evil and hatred and cruelty. It's through charity, love, understanding.
This is a Christian community - so-called. Is there any doubt that these boys would be safe
in the hands of the founder of the Christian religion?
